Why oracle is considered as powerful RDBMS?

Oracle follows approximately 10 to 12 Codd rules.
No other RDBMS follows all Codd rules.

SQL -Languages-

DDL -Data definition language-CREATE,ALTER,DROP,RENAME,TRUNCATE
DML- Data Manipulation language-INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE 
DQL- Data Query Language-SELECT
TCL-Transactional control-COMMIT,ROLLBACK
DCL- Data Control Language-GRANT,REVOKE

Float(p,s)-p-precision- total number digits including decimal.
           s-scale -number of digits after decimal.

salary float(14,2)- means maximum 11 digits before decimal and 2 digits after decimal.

by default 10,2


name char(10)- RAM -
name varchar(10)-RAM -all 7 spaces are released
abc enum('A','B','C')

DDL -Data Definition Language- CREATE,ALTER,DROP,RENAME,TRUNCATE
    All commands are AUTOCOMMIT.
     
CREATE- create database,tables,views,index,procedure,functions,triggers

SQL command rules-

1. All the commands are terminated by (;).
2. The name of tables or other structures may not be reserved keywords.
3. The names of tables or columns should be maximum 32 characters long.
4. The commands are not case sensitive but in conditions it will be case sensitive.

SHOW DATABASES;- to view all existing databases.
USE DATABASENAME; -this using that particular database.
SHOW TABLES- to view all tables in that database.

To create new database-

CREATE DATABASE Database name;

To create the tables:
CREATE-

create table tablename(column1 datatype(size),column2 datatype(size),........columnn datatype(size));

Write a query to create a new table as EMP with columns as empno,ename,sal,deptno.

create table emp(empno int,ename varchar(40),sal decimal(14,2),deptno int);

To view structure of table-
describe tablename;

ALTER-
To add ,modify,change name and drop any column we use ALTER.

a) to add new column-

syntax:
alter table tablename add columnname datatype(size);

WAQ to add new column as mgr_id in emp table.

alter table emp add mgr_id int;

b) to modify existing column-

Modify can change the datatypes and size.

Restrictions for changing datatypes-

1. varchar cannot be changed to char but vice versa is possible.
2. int cannot be changed to date and vice versa is not possible.
3. date and int can be changed to char and vice versa is also possible.

syntax:
alter table tablename modify columname datatype(size);

WAQ to change the datatype of sal from decimal to int and increase the size of varchar in ename column.

alter table emp modify sal int;

alter table emp modify ename varchar(50);


c) to change name of the column -

syntax:
alter table tablename rename column old columnname to newcolumnname;

WAQ to change the name of mgr_id to mgr in emp table.

alter table emp rename column mgr_id to mgr;

d) to drop existing column-

some unused columns in a table should be removed.

syntax:
alter table tablename drop column columnname;

WAQ to remove mgr column from emp.

alter table emp drop column mgr;

3. DROP -to permanently remove tables,databases,views,index,procedures,functions and triggers.

syntax:
drop database databasename;

drop table tablename;

4. RENAME -To rename existing table to new name.

syntax:
rename table  old name to new name;

WAQ to rename emp to e.

rename table emp to e;

5. TRUNCATE-removes all rows permanently.

DML- Data Manipulation Language- INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE
These commands are not AUTOCOMMIT.

a) INSERT- To add data to the table.

syntax:

insert into tablename(column1,column2,.....columnn) values(value 1,value2,......valuen)

WAQ to populate data in emp.

insert into emp(empno,ename,sal,dno) values(100,'John',24000,10);

To confirm addition of rows-

select * from tablename;

insert into emp(empno,ename,sal,dno) values(200,'Jon',22000,20),(300,'Marie',25000,20);











